[Music]
introduction of artificial intelligence
and machine learning
by the end of this lesson you will be
able to define artificial intelligence
describe the relationship between
artificial intelligence and data science
define machine learning
describe the relationship between
machine learning artificial intelligence
and data science
describe different machine learning
approaches
identify the applications of machine
learning
let's understand how the field of
artificial intelligence emerged
let's first understand the reason behind
the emergence of a.i
data economy is one of the factors
behind the emergence of ai
it refers to how much data has grown
over the past few years and how much
more it can grow in the coming years
when you look at this graph you can
clearly understand how the volume of
data has grown
you can see that since 2009 the data
volume has increased by 44 times with
the help of social websites
the explosion of data has given rise to
a new economy and there is a constant
battle for ownership of data between
companies to derive benefits from it
now that you know that data has grown at
a rapid pace in the past few years and
is going to continue to grow
let's understand the need for ai
as you know the increase in data volume
has given rise to big data which helps
manage huge amounts of data
data science helps analyze that data so
the science associated with data is
going toward a new paradigm
where one can teach machines to learn
from data and drive a variety of useful
insights giving rise to artificial
intelligence
now you may ask what is artificial
intelligence artificial intelligence
refers to the intelligence displayed by
machines that simulates human and animal
intelligence
it involves intelligence agents
the autonomous entities that perceive
their environment and take actions that
maximize their chances of success at a
given goal
artificial intelligence is a technique
that enables computers to mimic human
intelligence using logic
it is a program that can sense reason
and act
let's look at some of the areas where
artificial intelligence is used
artificial intelligence is redefining
industries by providing greater
personalization to users and automating
processes
one example of artificial intelligence
in practice is self-driving cars
self-driving cars are computer
controlled cars that drive themselves
in these cars human drivers are never
required to take control to safely
operate the vehicle
these cars are also known as autonomous
or driverless cars
let's see how apple uses ai
iphone users can experience the power of
siri the voice
it simplifies navigating through your
iphone as it listens to your voice
commands to perform tasks
for instance you can ask siri to call
your friend or to play music siri is fun
and is extremely convenient to use
another example is google's alphago
which is a computer program that plays
the board game go
it is the first computer program to
defeat a world champion at the ancient
chinese game of go
amazon echo is another product it's a
home control chatbot device that
responds to humans according to what
they are saying it responds by playing
music movies and more
if you've got compatible smart home
devices you can tell echo to dim the
lights or turn appliances on or off you
can use ai and chess and here is an
example of a concierge robot from ibm
called ibm watson
the ibm watson ai has typically been in
the headlines for composing music
playing chess and even cooking food
let's move ahead and look at some sci-fi
movies with the concept of artificial
intelligence
the films featuring ai reflect the
ever-changing spectrum of our emotions
regarding the machines we have created
humans are fascinated by the concept of
artificial intelligence and this is
reflected in the wide range of movies on
ai
recommendations systems are used by a
lot of e-commerce companies let's see
how they work
amazon collects data from users and
recommends the best product according to
the user's buying or shopping pattern
for example when you search for a
specific product in the amazon store and
add it to your cart
amazon recommends some relevant products
based on your past shopping and
searching pattern
so before you buy the selected product
you get recommendations based on your
interest and there is a possibility that
you may also buy the relevant product
with a selected product if not you have
the chance to compare the selected
product with the recommended products
now let's move ahead and understand the
relationship between artificial
intelligence machine learning and data
science
even though the terms artificial
intelligence ai machine learning and
data science fall in the same domain and
are connected to each other they have
their specific applications and meaning
let's try to understand a little about
each of these terms
artificial intelligence systems mimic or
replicate human intelligence
machine learning provides systems the
ability to automatically learn and
improve from the experiences without
being explicitly programmed
data science is an umbrella term that
encompasses data analytics data mining
machine learning artificial intelligence
and several other related disciplines
let's look at the flow diagram and try
to understand the relationship between
ai
machine learning and data science
interestingly ml is also an element of
artificial intelligence
so the first step is data gathering and
data transformation
this step basically comes under data
science
data transformation is the process of
converting data from one format or
structure into another format or
structure
data transformation is important to
activities such as data management and
data integration
after gathering data we would want to
use the data to make predictions and
derive insights in order to get
predictions out of the data set we use
machine learning techniques such as
supervised learning or unsupervised
learning on an overview level supervised
and unsupervised learning are the
machine learning techniques used to
extract predictions from a given data
set
now you must be thinking where deep
learning comes into the picture
deep learning is a subfield of machine
learning involved with algorithms
it uses artificial neural networks which
are modeled on the structure and
performance of neurons in the human
brain
deep learning is most effective when
there isn't a clear structure to the
data
that you can just exploit and build
features around
now the next step in the flow diagram is
to get insights from predictions being
made
in order to do so you need to use data
analysis which actually is the process
under data science
now when you are done with all of these
you must want your data to perform some
actions
this is where ai comes into the picture
artificial intelligence combines
predictions and insights to perform
actions based on the human decision and
automated decision
now let's move ahead and understand the
relationship between artificial
intelligence machine learning and data
science
let's look at the relationship between
artificial intelligence and machine
learning
artificial intelligence is the
engineering of making intelligent
machines and programs
machine learning provides systems the
ability to learn from past experiences
without being explicitly programmed
machine learning allows machines to gain
intelligence thereby enabling artificial
intelligence
let's now understand the relationship
between machine learning and data
science
data science and machine learning go
hand in hand
data science helps evaluate data for
machine learning algorithms
data science covers the whole spectrum
of data processing while machine
learning has the algorithmic or
statistical aspects
data science is the use of statistical
methods to find patterns in the data
statistical machine learning uses the
same techniques as data science
data science includes various techniques
like statistical modeling visualization
and pattern recognition machine learning
focuses on developing algorithms from
the data provided by making predictions
so what is machine learning
machine learning is the capability of an
artificial intelligence system to learn
by extracting patterns from data
it usually delivers quicker more
accurate results to help you spot
profitable opportunities or dangerous
risks
now you must be curious to understand
the features of machine learning machine
learning uses the data to detect
patterns in a data set and adjust
program actions accordingly
pattern detection can be defined as the
classification of data based on
knowledge already gained or on
statistical information extracted from
the patterns
it focuses on the development of
computer programs that can teach
themselves to grow and change
when exposed to new data by using a
method called reinforcement learning
it uses external feedback to teach the
system to change its internal workings
in order to guess better next time
it enables computers to find hidden
insights using iterative algorithms
without being explicitly programmed
machine learning uses algorithms that
learn from previous data to help produce
reliable and repeatable decisions it
automates analytical model building
using the statistical and machine
learning algorithms that tease patterns
and relationships from data and express
them as mathematical equations
let's understand the different machine
learning approaches
so what is the actual difference between
traditional programming and machine
learning in traditional programming data
and
is provided to the computer it processes
them and gives the output however the
machine learning approach is very
different in machine learning algorithms
are applied on the given data and output
the result of the applied algorithm and
calculations is a learning model that
helps machine to learn from the data
in traditional programming you code the
behavior of the program but in machine
learning you leave a lot of that to the
machine to learn from data
now let's first understand the
traditional programming approach
traditionally you would hard code the
decision rules for a problem at hand
evaluate the results of the program and
if the results were satisfactory the
program would be deployed in production
if the results were not as expected one
would review the errors change the
program and evaluate it again
this iterative process continues till
one gets the expected result
what is the machine learning approach in
the new machine learning approach the
decision rules are not hard coded the
problem is solved by training a model
with the training data in order to
derive or learn an algorithm that best
represents the relationship between the
input and the output this trained model
is then evaluated against test data if
the results were satisfactory the model
would be deployed in production and if
the results are not satisfactory the
training is repeated with some changes
machine learning techniques
machine learning uses a number of
theories and techniques from data
science here are some machine learning
techniques classification
categorization clustering trend analysis
anomaly detection visualization and
decision making
let's look at these techniques
classification is a technique in which
the computer program learns from the
data input given to it and then uses
this learning to classify new
observations
classification is used for predicting
discrete responses classification is
used when we are training a model to
predict qualitative targets
categorization is a technique of
organizing data into categories for its
most effective and efficient use
it makes free text searches faster and
provides a better user experience
clustering is a technique of grouping a
set of objects in such a way that
objects in the same group are most
similar to each other than to those in
other groups
it is basically a collection of objects
on the basis of similarity and
dissimilarity between them
trend analysis is a technique aimed at
projecting both current and future
movement of events through the use of
time series data analysis
it represents variations of low
frequency in a time series the high and
medium frequency fluctuations being out
anomaly detection is a technique to
identify cases that are unusual within
data that is seemingly homogenous
anomaly detection can be a key for
solving intrusions by indicating a
presence of intended or unintended
induced attacks defects faults and so on
visualization is a technique to present
data in a pictorial or graphical format
it enables decision makers to see
analytics presented visually
when data is shown in the form of
pictures it becomes easy for users to
understand it
decision making is a technique or skill
that provides you with the ability to
influence managerial decisions with data
as evidence for those possibilities
now i am sure you have a better
understanding of the overview of machine
learning so let's look at some real-time
applications of machine learning
artificial intelligence and machine
learning are being increasingly used in
various functions such as image
processing robotics
data mining video games text analysis
and healthcare let's look at each of
them in more details
so what is image processing it is a
technique to convert an image into a
digital format and perform some
operations on it so as to induce an
enhanced image or to extract some
helpful information from it
let's look at some of the examples of
image processing
facebook does automatic face tagging by
recognizing a face from a previous
user's tagged photos another example is
optional character recognition which
scans printed docs to digitize the text
self-driving cars are another big
example of image processing
autopilot is an optional drive system
for tesla cars
when autopilot is engaged cars can
self-steer adjust speed detect nearby
obstacles apply the brakes and park
now let's see how robotics uses machine
learning
robots are machines that can be used to
do certain jobs
some of the examples of robotics are
where a humanoid robot can read the
emotions of human beings or
an industrial robot is used for
assembling and manufacturing products
so let's look at some real-time
applications of machine learning
let's see what data mining is it is the
method of analyzing hidden patterns in
data
let's look at some of the applications
of data mining
it is used for anomaly detection to
detect credit card fraud and to
determine which transactions vary from
usual purchasing patterns
it is also used in market basket
analysis which is used to detect which
items are often bought together
it can be used for grouping where it
classifies users based on their profiles
machine learning is also applied in many
video games in order to give predictions
based on data in a pokemon go battle
there is a lot of data to take into
account to correctly predict the winner
of a battle
and this is where machine learning
becomes useful a machine learning
classifier will predict the result of
the match based on this data
let's move on to one of the most popular
applications of machine learning which
is text analysis
it is the automated process of obtaining
information from text
one example of text analysis is spam
filtering which is used to detect spam
in emails
another example is sentimental analysis
which is used for classifying an opinion
as positive negative or neutral it
detects public sentiment in twitter feed
or filters customer complaints
it is also used for information
extraction such as extracting specific
data address keyword or entities
there are many applications of machine
learning in the healthcare industry
identifying disease and diagnosis
drug discovery and manufacturing medical
imaging diagnosis and so on
some of the companies that use machine
learning have revolutionized the health
care industry are google deep mind
health
bio beats health fidelity and ginger dot
io
[Music]
you